Thank you very much, everyone, for participating. Thank you very much for coming and participating.
And now we are all well and good, really good. And again, we have a wonderful opportunity,
even in this kind of midst of the big kind of crisis in a way that has never happened in history
for a long time.
And it's really happening now. All over the world, there is nothing partiality.
Almost all of it is just every way, equal, un-faciality is there, and very difficult and troubles.
So many troubles, one after another. So we're doing retreat, activating our spiritual energy and
inner qualities,
our inner call of goodness. That's what gracious teaching, Buddha Shakyamuni and Gaurabhayama Samm
amal, all the great masters,
mention one after another as one voice. Not just they're mentioning, but they achieve what they've
spoken.
They stand up firmly with what they say. Is there something, saying something and doing something
different? No.
They're utterly, exactly lined up with what they spoke and what they're doing and what they did.
Therefore, principle is so absolutely beautiful. And that which is a touching to our inner goodness
, our qualities, our traits.
Many times we don't try to touch to our qualities, our goodness, because of the destructions of the
external,
of the mundane world, we're always outside, kind of looking and searching.
But this time, we're having some good time to reflect our inner qualities, reveal the goodness,
which is loving kindness, compassion, and wisdom. All the Buddhism thought, thinking of all living
beings.
We're doing something really wonderful, beautiful. And we should always dedicate this really wicked
,
sincere benefit to all living beings. These old peoples were going through so much troubles.
There were six who were trying to help and support to those sickness persons,
who were staying what they called terminology from the lines.
In a way, really the great Bodhisattva activated so many people's joy, all over the world.
Whether they have believed or not believed, but reflecting of their inner principle qualities
and good things throughout reaching to benefit, support many ways, one after another.
And we really wish while we're doing this, doing retreat, reflecting the teachings on the Buddhas,
practice meditating,
and cultivating that attitude, thinking that to all, dedicating that for all benefits.
This is our great kindness teacher, Buddha taught this, to benefit for all beings.
The principle activity of the Bodhisattva is to benefit to the others.
They are put the old others on the front than themselves.
Others are the number one, they are the second.
When you read the books of the Buddha teaching, and when we heard the teaching of those great
Masters,
one after another, that's really true. That's what they did.
Those great Masters did a doing and practising. So we're following that footsteps.
And their footsteps are examples of our best capabilities in these kind of circumstances,
in a way, for that situation here. And therefore, what great Master Gung-Hima said,
"All the difficult troubles came that I've met Dharma, and I'm thankful to those difficulties."
And all the suffering and sadness came, and I have to meet Dharma, and I'm thankful to those suffer
ings.
And all those negative spirits are, again, pushing me to the practises,
and I've got performant realisation, I think, to those unhuman beings, all those non-visible beings
who did this.
I mean, one after another, and one who has also encouraged me to practice, I got realisation.
I thank for all those who are encouraging me. And therefore, I dedicate all this merit to all
living beings
for their realisation and for their performance, and remove the suffering and the difficulty to
every living being.
That's what great Master Gung-Hima said.
Truly, we're having this opportunity to activate that with all these circumstances.
So I'm really, again, I'm so thankful and so grateful, all of you doing something beautiful,
something really good, meaningful in our lives, I think, in a way.
We can remember this, what we're doing for a long time.
A time that we can reflect about what we did together as retreats,
and using the modern technologies into virtual reality, or whatever the name is,
where we're doing the practicing, meditating as one mandalas, one circle.
And I'm so happy that we had these opportunities, and let it be encouraged to each other,
and aspire to each other, and extend our courage and commitment, confidence, and voltage that
progress.
That is what is known as performing the meaning of this very precious lives.
So, I'm so thankful.
Okay, thank you. Today, again, I'll go to the teaching,
but we'll continue to follow with the teachings of the Jyoti of the New Rumuji, as you all know.
As I said so many times, this teaching is very essentially called "Convencent"
and has the New Rumuji himself making his heart instructions to the fortunate ones,
or heart advice to the fortunate ones.
So, we're doing this. We're going over this.
And how we're going this? We're going slowly by slowly.
In a way, reflected teaching to the heart and the mind.
What is in Buddhism that's known as studying and contemplating.
And then meditating and practicing.
So, really, we're doing that a little bit.
Doing this little bit more, spending time, and when this thing, this.
And today, again, we are in discipline.
On the sixth line, sixth line, and here, I said the other day,
they highlight three points.
Three points, said three jewels.
Three jewels are then three jewels, and they are in valuable protractals,
and then trustees.
So, those are the three highlighted points in these lines.
And we're going again, as I said, many times, slowly,
and going a little bit details.
And again, I said, what I'm talking is nothing new that you never heard.
We all heard. You heard. I heard. We all heard.
But this time, what we're doing is the repression of our memories
and reflecting so that we can activate that.
That's really what we're doing together.
So, slowly by slowly.
And now, we're going to talk again, these three jewels.
Among the three jewels, I mean, these three jewels are Buddha, Dharma, and Sangha.
I think that's what's known as three jewels here.
Here, let's have this.
Trusting that the three jewels are in valuable source of ruffles.
So, this is the word in the teachings.
I said, trusty is one. Three jewels is one point.
In valuable source of ruffles is one three point.
I said that.
So, first of all, we're talking about three jewels.
Among that, these three point, we're talking.
That's how I'm going to highlight that.
And the three jewels are Buddha, Dharma, and Sangha.
Other day, what is Buddha, actually?
What means?
Simply to explain what is Buddha.
And what in the teachings is the nature of the Buddha.
Or one way may be the identity of the Buddha.
Identity or the nature of the Buddha, the simple way you can tell,
is one who will remove all the obscurations,
the anything that is the entrance, completely removed,
and completely achieved all the realizations.
That means there's nothing higher to gain, higher to go, or deeper to go.
Or more, kind of, vast to find that everything is completely achieved.
So, one completely purified, one is completely achieved.
That individually is known as Buddha.
And then, as I said, there are many Buddhas.
In the past Buddha, present Buddhas and the future Buddhas will come.
And there are also many Buddhas.
Those, as we all know, in the video and the teaching,
peaceful Buddhas, wrathful Buddhas.
And those are all Buddhas that can be male Buddhas, female Buddhas.
There are many determinations of the Buddhas that we know.
But, say, nature is the same.
One who achieved all the qualities and the good things,
all the natures, all the offers, everything is completely achieved.
And it removed all the handedness, the obstacles.
So, that is really what Buddha is.
So, that is simple.
Then we went through those already, quite a few.
And so, I mean, all those descriptions of the Buddhas,
we went and analyzed of the Buddhas and how we did this.
Because we said that the Buddhas and the Muslims
and the beneficial activities, we did kind of divided it three.
Buddhas are the best of the Muslims and the best of the activities.
In a way, what that means? The Muslims and the Kayas,
so, activities are best on the Kayas.
In general, very simple way to tell, kind of roughly to tell that.
That is how it is.
So, what are those Kayas?
And we have made, you know, there is a poor Kayas or Buddhas.
We have went there last time and of course, you all know, at the poor Kayas.
And those are Soba Wakaia, Dharmakaya, Sambokaya and Nirmakayas.
Those we went.
And Nirmakaya can be divided for the more supreme Nirmakayas.
Birth Nirmakayas or emanation Nirmakayas, maybe.
Spring Nirmakayas, emanation Nirmakayas, Art Nirmakayas
and the variety or the varieties of the Nirmakayas.
We went those.
Now, all that poor Kayas can also be summarized into two Kayas.
Often, we all heard that, known as Dharmakaya and Nirmakayas.
Dharmakaya and Rupakayas.
So, these all poor Kayas, what we are talking, what I've been talking,
is now summarized into two Kayas.
And that is Dharmakaya and Rupakayas.
So, how that is, is Soba Wakaia is concluded within the Dharmakaya.
So, Dharmakaya, when you say, sometimes we always mention three Kayas.
Or sometimes, two Kayas.
So, Dharmas, Soba Wakaia is within the Dharmakaya.
So, that is the first, number one Kaya.
And the second Kaya, Rupakaya, is, Rupa means in Sanskrit word, "homes".
So, in English, it's athletic poems, F-O-R-M.
Pong Kayas.
Pong Kayas divided into two, every second.
Pong Kayas, that also means, immediately you have to understand, it has two.
Sambokaya and Nirmakaya.
In the variety, those Kayas emanate all that in the poem Rupakayas.
Pong Kaya or the Rupakaya.
Now, so therefore, the whole Kayas summarize within two Kayas.
Kaya is like hip, roughly Sanskrit word, Kaya.
Kaya, if we translate that into English, I think it's hip, H-E-A-P, hip.
Meanwhile, variety of the goodness are controgate as one, those one and the guy.
Pong is hip of the goodness.
Hip of the goodness, all the hip of the goodness, all the, yeah, hip.
So, that is Kaya.
So, that is two Kayas, Dharmakaya and Rupakayas.
And what is Dharmakaya, actually?
In the teaching said, because when we are working for the enlightenment,
when we develop the body together, always in the Buddha teaching mentioned,
fulfilling the dual purpose, or fulfilling the two purpose.
Help to others, and when you help to the others,
and you also help to yourself, it naturally comes.
For example, how to use examples.
In the wind captain or the sail, sails, the passengers in the ship or the boat,
and the captain very tight to the cross, cross the river or the lake,
of course, captain is taking, taking the passengers,
but not just the only passengers, captain him or herself also going to the other side of the shore.
Naturally, its benefits.
It is, therefore, it is win-win situation or the win-win news.
Once you benefit to the others, then also human naturally benefit is reflecting back.
Whatever we do, it really reflects back.
And that we can witness in the samsara.
In the loving kindness and compassion, if we give someone,
it brings peace and happiness to the others,
but at the same time, it brings peace and happiness to us or the one who is given.
At the same time, anger and jealous, hated thoughts or resentment thoughts that if we do,
it also makes others uncomfortable.
At the same time, individually, one who is initiating will get the tunnels.
So this is the way we really think.
And for that reason, great master, yogi, Mahasweta, Dhrupa Konlek,
very famous, one of the very great yogis of the Tibetan Buddhist history
in the Dhrupa Kaju orders or the Kaju orders.
He came to the, and his teachings said and the master said too,
he will enter the central temple, very famous blessed cathedral of the Zhou temple,
Lord Buddha's temple.
This Buddha is so famous for all Tibetanists.
It is like represent living Buddhists.
Even many of the great masters always mention that statue is blessed by Buddha,
Shatyamuni, hence up, 2,600 years old.
And that statue is enrolled in the central cathedral of the palace,
the capital of the Tibet.
That is the focal point of the object of reference and object of pilgrimage sports.
All the Tibetan Buddhists, so many people come,
and so many great masters,
realize that your beings, yogis, yoginis, great thetans,
visited here all into this statue.
Sunrupa Konlek also came and went there.
And he said these words, words,
"You Buddha reach, you are the, you have the tremendous endeavor or the joyful effort, effort.
And therefore you become the Buddha.
Because of your endeavor and joyful effort, you reach enlightenment.
And because by leading this, I'm still in the samsara.
So therefore, these leadiness beings are going to do possibly you,
the one who has the joyful effort,
one who has joyful effort, I pray, I pray to you."
So that's what I lead.
Shatyamuni's song, sing that song, and pay the homage.
According to the very words which were taught that,
it looks like he's kind of making jogs, jogs naked.
But that's true statement.
Buddha, through his courage and commitment,
endeavor, all the joyful effort, for countless years,
and having benefited all living beings without any discrimination,
whoever needed, whoever needed the situation, the circumstances,
he are there, his emanation, no matter whatever his lives are,
whether he's a bird, whether he's like animals,
whether he's a princess, or whether he's a god, or human,
learned, unlearned, whatever, or a turtle.
He benefited to all the beings.
That's what really his commitment, his joyful effort, reach enlightenment.
Total, become the Buddha. Buddha.
And so therefore, when I say that, one who's really reaching enlightenment,
therefore, I pay homage to you.
So that is really, because all this, when you do this,
working for all the sentient beings, and therefore the Buddha reaches enlightenment.
Already, we sentient beings are still struggling in samsara,
with our own creation of the dualities, activities.
Really, our own struggle, our body is ready to enlightenment.
So therefore, we've called for following the two purpose, or the dual purpose.
So these two kyas, again going back to the two kyas,
this dharma kya is known as fulfilling, the result of fulfilling one's own purpose.
Therefore, Buddha achieved dharma kya.
And for following the purpose of others, even though Buddha reaches enlightenment already,
but still sentient beings are lingering, struggling in the samsara in different ways,
and they have to benefit all these living beings until they reach enlightenment.
Until they become Buddha, these emanations are known as rupa kyas.
Sambokaya and Nirmakayas.
And sambokayas are the ones who benefit all the higher realization beings.
They are the body's sambokayas.
Sambokaya immediately communicates to benefit them.
All those higher realization beings have the capability
to contract to this great sambokaya Buddha and this is the teaching,
such as Amitabha, Vaidya Sato, Rana Sambokas, and Verojanas.
All the Buddhas, all the many, many other emanations,
all many emanations of the five dhyana Buddhas, of the three five emanations of the five dhyana
Buddha.
There are so many emanations, they can contract that.
For us, many of the sentient people who are struggling in the samsara,
they are again Buddha emanated.
This is the second decision, then rupa kya, when it's Nirmakayas.
And all those as I listed the other day, and you all know,
those four emanations.
According to our capabilities, Buddhas are connected to those old things.
Whether it is Supreme Nirmakaya, or the emanation Nirmakaya,
or the variety Nirmakaya, or the art Nirmakaya,
one way or the other, they are connected to that and bring up their inner goodness qualities.
Starting with joy, peace, happiness, and love, kindness, compassion,
and benefiting to the others, according to their readiness, help to the others.
So that is really known as dharma, or a mrupakayas.
So that is really about gaya now.
That we talk in our episode again.
Gaya and Varsitam, about the division of Buddha.
Gaya, Varsitam, and beneficial activities.
I'm going like this, slowly, and talking this to all of us,
a little bit reminding to you, and a little bit reminding to myself,
so we can reflect and set the goal, what we are going to fulfill in our life time,
or, really it takes time.
We are going to discover this inner nature.
That is our destination, our goals.
Now, toe above that, really above that, Varsitam.
When you reach the window, you become the Buddha.
You got the complete Varsitam.
Varsitam.
This Varsitam is not just maybe miniaturized with things,
Varsitam is intelligence.
But this Varsitam is not just only intelligence.
It's loving kindness. It's compassion.
Its combination of that is known as Varsitam.
Combination of love, combination of compassion, combination of the intelligence.
All that is known as Varsitam.
It's all blended in, that.
And so that is Varsitam.
How many Varsitams?
There is, again, a simple way to tell the primordial Varsitam.
One primordial Varsitam.
Or, the number "tam chen chen mihi" in the debate.
There is Varsitam that knows everything.
That is one, one mental expression.
One Varsitam.
Then we divided the letter further.
Further, two Varsitams.
Varsitam that understand it perfectly,
exactly as it of the Absolute Truth.
And Varsitam that understand it,
exactly as it related to Truth.
So two Varsitam.
"Chen tauan chen mihi" "Chen diabar zabihi"
Two Varsitams.
That is really the true Varsitam.
One understand it perfectly,
exactly, Absolute Truth.
The nature, exactly as it is.
Why everyone understands it,
exactly as it is.
Why I am talking exactly as it is.
According to the Buddha's teaching,
Varsitam that see exactly as it is,
that is the final, the knowledge that you have to develop.
And we are making overstatement, understatement,
is not considering as a versusness.
It is a misconception.
Misunderstanding.
You see, gold as gold.
And, what is called that name?
Brass as brass.
Not mixed up.
So, white as white.
Simple ritual.
Black as black.
Or yellow as yellow.
Not mixed up.
Once you see that,
that is then ultimately understand
of the relative level where things are.
So, that is what I am talking,
exactly as it is.
Exactly.
Nothing higher state, nothing lower state.
For that reason,
Nagarjuna said,
"You spoke that among all the speakers,
among all the teachers,
you are the excellent speakers."
Exactly truth.
Not covering up, not making anything.
Simple, rare as it is.
That is what the religious teacher,
brother, is.
Simple.
Right is right.
Wrong is wrong.
Negative is negative.
Positive is positive.
Virtue is virtues.
Not virtues, not virtues.
Or mixture is mixture.
Exactly things are explained.
So, that is the worst of us.
Now these Muslims,
they were more divided.
Nagarjuna explained.
And then these Muslims,
we all know, heard.
The five Muslims.
Those are the Dhamma Dhamma Muslims.
And the Merulan Muslims.
Equanimity Muslims.
And then discrimination,
awareness Muslims.
All the distinctly understaining awareness Muslims.
You know, all accomplished Muslims.
Those are known as five Muslims,
the year old.
Okay, so that's my talk for today.
And then, of course, again,
we continue to think, okay,
thank you very much for participating
and listening.
And again, we do your meditation talking.
Thank you.
Thank you, everyone.
[BLANK_AUDIO]